Journal of Consumer Research <onbehalfof@manuscriptcentral.com> 
Yesterday, 23:40jcr@ejcr.org 
11-Mar-2019

Dear Miss Trendl:

Thank you for submitting JCONRES-2019-101, titled "A zero attraction effect in naturalistic choice," to the Journal of Consumer Research.

Before sending a paper for full peer review, an editor reads it to assess its fit with the mission of the Journal of Consumer Research and potential for publication. 

Unfortunately, after carefully reading your manuscript, I find that it is not a good fit for the Journal of Consumer Research. Your research focuses on the interesting question of whether "naturalistic stimuli" are a boundary condition for the attraction effect. This is clearly an important question that, as you note, has been proposed by other researchers. As I understand it, your contribution to the current research conversation is intended to be the provision of strong, rigorous and clear evidence that gives stronger insight into the question. 

However, this research provides a single study with only "naturalistic stimuli"; this does not manipulate whether the stimuli are naturalistic or numerical. The single study involves multiple stages in which a relatively small number of participants are exposed to the same stimuli multiple times and during one stage of exposure make a non-incentive compatible "choice." The authors interpret what is basically a null effect as showing that the attraction effect does not occur for naturalistic stimuli. While the editors of the Journal of Consumer Research believe that self-reported, imagined behavior (such as a "choice" with no consequence) can provide one type of evidence, the Journal of Consumer Research is interesting in publishing an overall body of evidence that contributes to consumer-relevant understanding. A lack of an effect can arise in one study for any number of reasons. One study with an imagined choice does not reach the threshold for the type of generalizable contribution to knowledge that we seek to publish. Although we appreciate the strengths of the study in this paper, this does not provide a strong level of generalization or theoretical understanding. While this is an interesting topic, the research contribution does not fit with the journal’s focus and therefore my decision is to desk reject the manuscript.

I realize that this is disappointing news. We do not take the decision to desk reject lightly, but we feel that it is better for you to learn this now rather than going through a full and time-consuming peer-review process.

Thank you for considering the Journal of Consumer Research for the publication of your research. I hope you will continue to consider JCR as an outlet for your future research.

Sincerely,
Dr. Margaret Campbell
Editor, Journal of Consumer Research

