11-Dec-2018

Dear Anna,

I write to you with regard to your manuscript, JMR.18.0570, entitled "A zero attraction effect in naturalistic choice," which you recently submitted to the Journal of Marketing Research.

When papers are first submitted to the Journal of Marketing Research (JMR), they are carefully read by me and frequently by an associate editor with expertise in the research area to ensure that there is a good fit between the contents of the paper and the journal, and that the work is sufficiently well developed to merit a full review by a team of reviewers. As you may know, JMR receives a large number of submissions and we lack the resources to provide full feedback in cases where an initial reading suggests that the paper is not a good fit, or that it would need to undergo a major reworking to be publishable. In such cases, we return the paper to the authors and encourage them to either redirect the paper to a more suitable outlet or continue developing the paper.

Such is the case, unfortunately, with your submission. As I understand it, the goal of your paper is to test the attraction effect using naturalistic choices, and following the guidelines outlined by Huber, Payne and Puto (2014). Clearly, the attraction effect is important phenomenon to test. As you note, this effect challenges the economic assumption of independence of irrelevant alternatives. Moreover, the attraction effect is a topic of interest to JMR readers: JMR is the journal in which both a recent paper challenging the attraction effect (Frederick, Lee and Baskin 2014) and a rebuttal by the authors of the original paper (Huber et al. 2014) were published. Although you have made a few adjustments to the procedures used by Frederick et al. in their tests of the attraction effect, your test is very similar and your results are consistent with theirs. 

Although replications are valuable and you seem to have designed your study very carefully following the criteria outlined by Huber, Payne and Puto, JMR is designed to serve as an outlet for work that makes major contributions to theory or method in the field of marketing. Because of its limited contribution relative to previously published work, unfortunately, I must reject this manuscript from further consideration at JMR.

Thank you for considering the Journal of Marketing Research for your article.  I am sorry to bring you this news and I hope the outcome of this specific submission will not discourage you from submitting future manuscripts.

Regards,
Dr. Rebecca Hamilton
Editor
Journal of Marketing Research
rebecca.hamilton@georgetown.edu
