Date: Mon, 15 Apr 2019 02:59:25 +0000
From: Priya Raghubir <onbehalfof@manuscriptcentral.com>
To: a.trendl@warwick.ac.uk
Cc: a.trendl@warwick.ac.uk, neil.stewart@wbs.ac.uk, Tim.Mullett@wbs.ac.uk
Subject: Journal of Consumer Psychology - Decision on Manuscript ID JCP-19-0127

JCP-19-0127
A zero attraction effect in naturalistic choice
Journal of Consumer Psychology

14-Apr-2019

Dear Authors:

Thank you for submitting your manuscript, “A zero attraction effect in
naturalistic choice” for publication consideration as a Research Report at
the Journal of Consumer Psychology.

Before sending a paper for a full peer review, I read it myself to assess
its fit with the mission of the journal and potential for publication. 
Research Reports should either offer novel and interesting theories with
preliminary empirical findings that are directly relevant to consumer
psychology, or offer novel and interesting empirical findings with plausible
theoretical explanations that directly contribute to consumer psychology.

Your paper investigates the attraction effect in naturalistic choices using
a movie data base.  Your data collection of the movie data base is
impressive, as is your goal of wanting to investigate whether the attraction
effect exists when numerical attributes are absent.  In your data set and
study you do not find evidence for it and conclude that “While we did not
aim to investigate the exact reason behind the lack of the effect, we
hypothesize that spatial separability of the attribute dimensions might play
a key role in the comparison process, potentially giving rise to the
attraction effect.” I think this investigation could potentially be a novel
contribution to the literature and I encourage you to investigate it.

As of now, it is unclear where the novelty of your contribution lies.  Your
paper reports the results of a single study with a complete sample of 152
online re spondents where you demonstrate a null effect.  Given that we
cannot statistically draw conclusions from null results, it is unclear what
we can learn at the conceptual or empirical level from your results.

Going forward, my recommendation would be to see whether you could replicate
some of the effects that you have reviewed that did find significant effects
using their exact procedures (if you contact the authors they are likely to
share their materials with you).  It is quite simply difficult to “sell” a
null result, though I admire the work you put into your methodology to show
that one could draw an inference from it.

Further, I recommend you, at the very minimum, assess whether your results
replicate.  As you currently report the results of a single study it is
questionable whether your results would generalize to other contexts and
samples.

Unfortunately, due to these concerns, I have decided to desk reject this
manuscript due to the lack of theoretical contribution or empirical insight. 
I realize that this news will be disappointing for you, and am sorry to have
to provide this unfortunate news.  The decision to desk reject is not made
lightly; however, I feel that it is better for you to learn about this
outcome now rather than going through a full peer review that could
potentially take months and lead to the same outcome.

Thank you for your interest in JCP.  We hope you will keep JCP in mind as an
outlet for this, and possibly your future work.

Sincerely,

Priya Raghubir
Editor, Research Reports
Journal of Consumer Psychology
